[Music]
hi there here are 14 amazing facts
National Geographic has shared with us
you know humans may know a lot about the
world but there are still many questions
that remain unanswered what do the tops
of the pyramids in Egypt look like can
the Sahara Desert turn into a lush green
forest wow that would be call National
Geographic has provided answers to your
most burning questions
you can't even imagine some of the
things you don't know about the world
after watching this video you'll be able
to impress all your friends with these
unbelievable facts now don't forget to
click the subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life
number one what sits atop the ancient
Egyptian pyramids the ancient pyramids
in Egypt are tall some of the tallest
ones stand at a whopping 480 feet so
it's pretty hard to get a good look at
the top of these things want to take a
guess as to what's up there no not a
star they aren't Christmas trees
pyramids are tombs that hold ancient
Pharaoh's scientists discovered the
benben stone which once sat atop the
pyramid of a minimun had the third
around 1840 BCE in the temple of phoenix
in egypt the phoenix was thought to be
able to create and resurrect so it's no
surprise that this symbol appeared on
the top of this pyramid in a prayer that
asked for the Pharaoh to see life again
wonder if that prayer worked number 2
that's a canary of a different color
have you ever eaten something spicy and
had your cheeks turn red
well Canaries can change colors after
eating peppers thanks to a special
pigment in canary wings they can change
shades depending on what they eat yellow
Canaries for example can eat red peppers
and turn orange or red
you may have also noticed that Canaries
feathers showed different tinges of
color after sitting in the Sun gee I
wonder what would happen if you fed them
blueberries number three the Vatican
prohibited copies of a special saw if
the Vatican had a theme song what would
it be well there's the Vatican rag by
Tom Lehrer but that's probably not what
they had in mind it is an intriguing
question while the Vatican doesn't have
a theme song
it did have a special piece that was
performed once a year which was kept
secret for nearly 150 years no one was
even allowed to write it down but one
day a young Mozart heard the song at age
14 and wrote the music down completely
by ear when the Vatican learned what
Mozart did instead of being angry they
were shocked at how precise his ear was
the music was recorded almost perfectly
Mozart was given an award called the
order of the Golden Spur by the Pope ah
Mozart what a rebel you were so where do
we hear the song number four crisscross
patterns in the sea no it's not a
massive game of checkers these square
shapes that appear in the ocean are
known as cross sea it happens when two
wave systems occur in the ocean at
oblique or slanting angles but this
pattern is only pretty from afar if you
were to get stuck in this crossing of
waves you'd be trapped they can even
cause boats to flip upside-down number
five someone broke the beard off an
ancient Egyptian mask artifact in a
museum you think you're having a bad day
at work back in 2014 an employee at the
Egyptian Museum knocked off the beard of
Tutankhamun's burial mask did I do that
they tried to glue it back on which did
more harm than good to the artifact the
ancient Egyptian mask was discovered
back in 1922 and is considered to be one
of the ten sand
of our human civilization while this
little snafu occurred in 2014 it wasn't
until 2016 that historians discovered
the poor glue job and now they're stuck
with it number six
orchids are Devils plants are these
gorgeous flowers cursed with evil yeah
they just look like it this flower from
the forests of Colombia got the name of
Devil's orchid thanks to its creepy
appearance with a face of horns and red
eyes in its middle if you want to put
one of these bad boys in your next
flower arrangement you'll be waiting for
a long time you can't buy the flower in
regular shops because not only are they
grown in special conditions but they're
also considered endangered number seven
a colorless rainbow now what do you
think when you imagine a rainbow lots of
beautiful colors right well you may be
disappointed to see this fogbow which
looks like an all-white rainbow the fog
bow is a rare phenomenon that makes an
appearance on foggy days hence the name
you can see the fog bow only if there
are small drops of water about two
hundredths of an inch and you stand
facing the fog with your back toward the
Sun you can even spot one of these by
moonlight it's referred to as a moon
ball who would have thought
number eight is GPS really free you may
not pay to use GPS on your phone when
you're looking for the nearest Starbucks
but the US government spends seven
hundred fifty million dollars a year to
maintain the 24 satellites it uses
that's an impressive two million dollars
a day while the government says they
don't profit from GPS the system is
imperative when it comes to avoiding
catastrophes like major storms number
nine you can move from city to city in
Russia without changing homes think you
know the name of the city you live in
well people living in Russia may not be
able to say as much
that's because Russian cities change
their name so often that residents can
live in three different cities without
ever having moved a person may live in
Petersburg one year and Petrograd the
next without packing a box now that's
moving made easy number 10
penguin poop is necessary for survival
ah the joys of penguin poop said no one
ever but believe it or not something as
gross as penguin poop is crucial to
maintaining Antarctica's ecosystem the
elements in this bird's dung help plants
to grow on frozen soil it even helps
animals to survive and over the last
five thousand years over 17 million
pounds of the stuff has kept Antarctica
thriving wow that's some powerful poop
number 11
avocados are toxic to everyone but
humans where do you put them in dips on
toast or in sandwiches people just can't
get enough
avocados however this delicious fruit is
incredibly toxic to well everyone else
dogs and other animals like horses and
cows can get very sick and even die from
ingesting parts of avocados this is
because avocado leaves contain per sin
which can lead to necrosis in the heart
muscles and mammary glands of different
animals well I guess that means more
guacamole for us 12 Iceland cooks bread
with the help of volcanoes well most of
us use ovens to cook delicious bread
Iceland uses what's readily available to
them
volcano heat one of the country's oldest
bread recipes for volcano bread requires
a pot of dough to be placed on the
ground near a geyser for a full 24 hours
since this soil reaches 220 degrees
Fahrenheit the bread bakes just be sure
to add plenty of butter to get rid of
that sulfuric taste and also don't get
yourself boiled trying this 13 ice balls
aren't a myth
while incredibly rare natural ice balls
actually exist
they look like perfect balls that only a
human could manufacture but these balls
are formed by the wind
somehow strong winds are able to pick up
the snow roll it into round balls and
polish it they can reach up to 20 inches
in diameter these ice balls were last
seen on the shore of the Yamal Peninsula
in Western Siberia back in 2016 just
another way nature likes to turn heads
with its craftiness 14 the Sahara isn't
always a hot desert when you think of
the Sahara you imagine high temperatures
and dry sands right well it may be hard
to fathom but according to Robert
cording a researcher at Texas A&M
University the Sahara was tropical some
six thousand years ago how is that
possible you ask well according to
Courtney something called the Hadley
circulation tropical atmospheric
circulation that rises around the
equator is related to subtropical winds
rain belts and more this can create
desert like weather when it sits over
the sub tropics this is apparently what
causes the Sahara to turn from a lush
green environment to a desert and every
23 thousand years the Sahara is expected
to switch back and forth from one
environment to the other boy I can't
wait hey are you feeling a little bit
smarter what other questions about the
world do you have that remain unanswered
leave your response in the comment
section below don't forget to give this
video a like share it with your friends
and click Subscribe stay on the bright
side
[Music]